abstraction - the act of specifying a general interface hiding implementation details.  classess, abstact classes, and templates are the primary abstraction mechanisms in c++.

computation - an action that is performed by a function as a result of taking in inputs.  Computations produce outputs.

conditional statement - an example of a conditinal statement is an if statement.

declaration -function declarations consist of a return value, function name and list of parameters that the function accepts.

definition - the first line of a program.

divide and conquer - Taking a large problem and dividing it into several little ones.

else - the second part of an if-else statement.  The next step to be taken if the condition of an if statement fails.

expression - computes a value from a set of operands using operators.

for-statement - like a while statement, except that the management of the control variable is concentrated at the top where it is easy to see and understand.

range-for-statement - denoted as [0:v.size()) for a vector v. It's called this because the word range is often used to mean the same as "sequence of elements." for(int x; v) as "for each int x in v, and the meaning of the loop is exactly like the equivalent loop over the subscripts [0:v.size()).  We use the range for loop for simple loops over all the elements of a sequence looking at one element at a time. 

function - should perform a single logical action.

if-statement - selects between two alternatives.  If its condition is true, the first statement is executed; otherwise, the second statement is.  

increment - can be expressed in at least three ways.
++a
a+=1
a=a+1

input - similar to iostream - extensible type-safe input and output framework.

iteration - traversal of data structure, directly or indirectly using an iteration - statement.  The standard library offer algorithms, such as copy(), find(), that can be effective alternatives to explicit iteration.

loop - a statement that expresses the notion of doing something zero or more times, such as a for-statement and a while statement.

lvalue - an express that may appear on the left-hand side of an assignment; for example, v[7] if v is an array or a vector.  An lvalue is modifiiable unless it is constant (const).

member function - a function declared in the scope of a class.  A member function that is not a static member function must be called for an object of its class.

output - similar to iostream - extensible type-safe input and output framework.

push_back() - member function that adds an element at the end of a standard container, such as vector, thereby increasing the container's size by one.

repetition - a convenient way of doing something several times. When you do something to a series of elements of a data structure.

rvalue - an expression that may appear on the right hand side of an assignment, but not of the left hand side, 7.

selection - if statement or a switch statement.

size() - calling this function gives the number of elements of a vector.

sort() - standard library algorithm for sorting a random access sequence, such as a vector or an array.

statement -the basic unit controlling the execution flow in a function, such as if statement, while statement, do statement, switch statement, expression statement, and declaration.

switch-statement - a statement selecting among many alternatives based on an integer value.

vector - a standard library template providing contiguous storage, resizing and the useful push_back() functions for adding elements at the end.  Vector is the default container.

while - statement - a loop statement presenting its condition "at the top".  For example,
while(cin >> var)
{
	vec.push_back(var);
}
